=head1 NAME

omxplayer - Raspberry Pi command line OMX player

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<omxplayer> [I<OPTIONS>] [B<FILE>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<OMXPlayer> is a command-line hardware accelerated video player for the B<Raspberry Pi>. It plays
video directly from the command line and plays outside your desktop environment. OMXPlayer uses the
OpenMAX API to access the hardware video decoder in the GPU. Hardware acceleration along with
command-line use allows ultra low overhead, low power video playback. It was originally developed
as a testbed for B<Kodi>.

=head1 OPTIONS

I<FILE> can be a path to a local media file, any protocol supported by B<ffmpeg> or a path to a dvd
device. You can also play a stream on the standard input by specifying I<pipe:0>.

=over

=item B<-3>,  B<--3d> I<mode>

Switch tv into 3d mode (TB, FP, or SBS)

=item B<-a>,  B<--no-playlist>

Disable playlist and remember position functionality

=item B<--advanced>[=0]

Enable/disable advanced deinterlace for HD videos (default enabled)

=item B<--align> I<left/center>

Subtitle alignment (default: left)

=item B<--alpha> I<n>

Set video transparency (0..255)

=item B<--amp> I<n>

set initial amplification in millibels (default 0)

=item B<--anaglyph> I<type>

convert 3d to anaglyph

=item B<--aspect-mode> I<type>

Letterbox, fill, stretch (default: letterbox)

=item B<--audio_fifo>  I<n>

Size of audio output fifo in seconds

=item B<--audio_queue> I<n>

Size of audio input queue in MB

=item B<--avdict> I<opts>

Options passed to demuxer, e.g., 'rtsp_transport:tcp,...'

=item B<-b>,  B<--blank>[I<=0xAARRGGBB>]

Set the video background color to black (or optional ARGB value)

=item B<--bold-font> I<path>

Path to true type bold font file for osd and subtitles. Defaults to
/usr/share/fonts/truetype/freefont/FreeSansBold.ttf

=item B<--cookie> I<cookie>

Send specified cookie as part of HTTP requests. May be specified more than once for multiple cookies

(eg --cookie "name=value; path=/")

=item B<--crop> I<x1,y1,x2,y2>

Set a crop area for the video input

=item B<-d>,  B<--deinterlace>

Force deinterlacing

=item B<--dbus_name> I<name>

default: org.mpris.MediaPlayer2.omxplayer

=item B<--display> I<n>

Set display to output to

=item B<--ffmpeg-log> I<level>

Set ffmpeg logging level (quiet, panic, fatal, error, warning, info, verbose, debug, or trace)

=item B<--font> I<path>

Path to true type regular font file for osd and subtitles. Defaults to
/usr/share/fonts/truetype/freefont/FreeSans.ttf

=item B<--font-size> I<size>

Font size in 1/1000 screen height (default: 55)

=item B<--fps> I<n>

Set fps of video where timestamps are not present

=item B<-g>,  B<--genlog>I<=logfile>

Generate log file

=item B<-h>,  B<--help>

Print a simple usage message

=item B<-i>,  B<--info>

Dump stream format and exit

=item B<-I>,  B<--with-info>

dump stream format before playback

=item B<--italic-font> I<path>

Path to true type italic font file for osd and subtitles. Defaults to
/usr/share/fonts/truetype/freefont/FreeSansOblique.ttf

=item B<--key-config> I<file>

Uses key bindings in I<file> instead of the default. See L</"KEY CONFIG SYNTAX"> below for more.

=item B<-l>,  B<--pos> I<n>

Start position (hh:mm:ss)

=item B<--log> I<level>

Set the omxplayer log level (none, fatal, severe, error, warning, notice, info, or debug)

=item B<--lavfdopts> I<opts>

Options passed to libavformat, e.g. 'probesize:250000,...'

=item B<--layer> I<n>

Set video render layer number (higher numbers are on top)

=item B<--layout>

Set output speaker layout (e.g. 5.1)

=item B<--lines> I<n>

Number of lines in the subtitle buffer (default: 3)

=item B<--live>

Set for live tv or vod type stream

=item B<--loop>

Loop file. Ignored if file not seekable

=item B<-M>,  B<--allow-mvc>

Allow decoding of both views of MVC stereo stream

=item B<-n>,  B<--aidx>  I<index>

Audio stream index, index can be language code or index number

=item B<--nativedeinterlace>

let display handle interlace

=item B<--no-boost-on-downmix>

Don't boost volume when downmixing

=item B<--no-ghost-box>

No semitransparent boxes behind subtitles

=item B<--no-keys>

Disable keyboard input (prevents hangs for certain TTYs)

=item B<--no-osd>

Do not display status information on screen

=item B<--nodeinterlace>

Force no deinterlacing

=item B<-o>,  B<--adev>  I<device>

Audio out device: e.g. hdmi/local/both/alsa[:device]

=item B<--orientation> I<n>

Set orientation of video (0, 90, 180 or 270)

=item B<-p>,  B<--passthrough>

Audio passthrough

=item B<-r>,  B<--refresh>

Adjust framerate/resolution to video

=item B<-s>,  B<--stats>

Pts and buffer stats

=item B<--subtitles> I<path>

External subtitles in UTF-8 srt format

=item B<-t>,  B<--sid> I<index>

Show subtitle with index, index can be a three letter language code or index number

=item B<--threshold> I<n>

Amount of buffered data required to finish buffering [s]

=item B<--timeout> I<n>

Timeout for stalled file/network operations (default 10s)

=item B<--track> I<n>

Play a DVD track (natural number, default 1)

OMXPlayer ignores short and overlapping DVD tracks

=item B<--user-agent> I<ua>

Send specified User-Agent as part of HTTP requests

=item B<-v>,  B<--version>

Print version info

=item B<--video_fifo>  I<n>

Size of video output fifo in MB

=item B<--video_queue> I<n>

Size of video input queue in MB

=item B<--vol> I<n>

set initial volume in millibels (default 0)

=item B<-w>,  B<--hw>

Hw audio decoding

=item B<--win> I<x1,y1,x2,y2>

Set coordinates for the video window

=item B<-y>,  B<--hdmiclocksync>

Display refresh rate to match video (default)

=item B<-z>,  B<--nohdmiclocksync>

Do not adjust display refresh rate to match video

=back

=head1 KEY BINDINGS

Key bindings to control OMXPlayer while playing:

    1           decrease speed
    2           increase speed
    <           rewind
    >           fast forward
    z           show info
    j           previous audio stream
    k           next audio stream
    i           previous chapter
    o           next chapter
    9           previous file/track
    0           next file/track
    n           previous subtitle stream
    m           next subtitle stream
    s           toggle subtitles
    w           show subtitles
    x           hide subtitles
    d           decrease subtitle delay (- 250 ms)
    f           increase subtitle delay (+ 250 ms)
    q           exit omxplayer
    p / space   pause/resume
    -           decrease volume
    + / =       increase volume
    left arrow  seek -30 seconds
    right arrow seek +30 seconds
    down arrow  seek -10 minutes
    up arrow    seek +10 minutes

=head1 KEY CONFIG SYNTAX

A key config file is a series of rules of the form I<action>:I<key>. Multiple keys can be bound
to the same action, and comments are supported by adding a # in front of the line.

The list of valid actions roughly corresponds to the list of default key bindings above and are:

    DECREASE_SPEED
    INCREASE_SPEED
    REWIND
    FAST_FORWARD
    SHOW_INFO
    PREVIOUS_AUDIO
    NEXT_AUDIO
    PREVIOUS_CHAPTER
    NEXT_CHAPTER
    PREVIOUS_FILE
    NEXT_FILE
    PREVIOUS_SUBTITLE
    NEXT_SUBTITLE
    TOGGLE_SUBTITLE
    DECREASE_SUBTITLE_DELAY
    INCREASE_SUBTITLE_DELAY
    EXIT
    PAUSE
    DECREASE_VOLUME
    INCREASE_VOLUME
    SEEK_BACK_SMALL
    SEEK_FORWARD_SMALL
    SEEK_BACK_LARGE
    SEEK_FORWARD_LARGE
    STEP

Valid keys include all utf8 characters, and terminal escape codes. The following are also supported:

    left
    right
    up
    down
    esc
    space
    num [decimal or hex keycode]

For example:

    EXIT:esc
    PAUSE:p
    PAUSE:space
    REWIND:left
    SEEK_FORWARD_SMALL:num 0x4f43
    NEXT_FILE:num 63
    EXIT:q

=head1 EXIT CODES

=over

=item B<0>

File played successfully to the end

=item B<1>

An error has occurred

=item B<2>

Playback has stopped before the file finished playing

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

OMXPlayer does not support software video decoding. HEVC is not supported, and DVD video
will only play on systems with mpeg2 hardware decoding. This can be purchased on rp3 but
isn't available on the rpi4.

DVD menus are not supported.

=head1 BUGS AND ISSUES

Please report any bug or other issues to L<https://github.com/mjfwalsh/omxplayer/issues>

=head1 LICENCE

OMXPlayer is free and open source software licences under the GNU General Public
License version 2, or higher.

=cut
